Hydra optuna sweeper custom search space 1909 (#1909)
facebookresearch/hydra: website/docs/plugins/optuna_sweeper.md

For problems with trade-offs between two different objectives, there may be no single solution that simultaneously minimizes both objectives. Instead, we obtained a set of solutions, namely [Pareto optimal solutions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pareto_efficiency), that show the best trade-offs possible between the objectives. In the following figure, the blue dots show the Pareto optimal solutions in the optimization results.

![Pareto-optimal solutions](/plugins/optuna_sweeper/multi_objective_result.png)

> ## EXPERIMENTAL:  Custom-Search-Space Optimization
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## EXPERIMENTAL:  Custom-Search-Space Optimization

Hydra's Optuna Sweeper allows users to provide a hook for custom search space configuration.
This means you can work directly with the `optuna.trial.Trial` object to suggest parameters.
To use this feature, define a python function with signature `Callable[[DictConfig, optuna.trial.Trial], None]`
and set the `hydra.sweeper.custom_search_space` key in your config to target that function.

```

> In the same directory, `example/custom-search-space-objective.py` implements a simple benchmark function, which needs to be minimized. The example shows the use of Optuna's [pythonic search spaces](https://optuna.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorial/10_key_features/002_configurations.html) in combination with Hydra. Part of the search space configuration is defined in config files, part of it is written in Python.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find a full example in the same directory as before, where `example/custom-search-space-objective.py` implements a benchmark function to be minimized.
The example shows the use of Optuna's [pythonic search spaces](https://optuna.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorial/10_key_features/002_configurations.html) in combination with Hydra.
Part of the search space configuration is defined in config files, and part of it is written in Python.
```

> <details><summary>Configuration of the custom-search-space-objective optimization example</summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<details><summary>Example: Custom search space configuration</summary>
```

```yaml
defaults:
  - override hydra/sweeper: optuna

>   - override hydra/sweeper/sampler: tpe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

hydra:
  sweeper:
    sampler:
      seed: 123
    direction: minimize
    study_name: custom-search-space
    storage: null
    n_trials: 20
    n_jobs: 1

>     search_space:
>       x:
>         type: float
>         low: -5.5
>         high: 5.5
>         step: 0.5
>       y:
>         type: categorical
>         choices: [-5, 0, 5]
>     custom_search_space: example.custom-search-space-objective.configure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    params:
      x: range(-5.5, 5.5, 0.5)
      y: choice(-5, 0, 5)
    # `custom_search_space` should be a dotpath pointing to a
    # callable that provides search-space configuration logic:
    custom_search_space: .custom-search-space-objective.configure
```

x: 1
y: 1
z: 100
max_z_difference_from_x: 0.5
```

> 

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```python
# example/custom-search-space-objective.py

...

def configure(cfg: DictConfig, trial: Trial) -> None:
    x_value = trial.params["x"]
    trial.suggest_float(
        "z",
        x_value - cfg.max_z_difference_from_x,
        x_value + cfg.max_z_difference_from_x,
    )
    trial.suggest_float("+w", 0.0, 1.0)  # note +w here, not w as w is a new parameter

...
```

````

> The `custom_search_space` configuration option refers to the `configure` function in `example/custom-search-space-objective.py`. This method accepts both a DictConfig with already set options and the trial object which needs further configuration. In this example we limit `z` the difference between `x` and `z` to be no more than 0.5.
> Note that this `custom_search_space` API should be considered experimental and is subject to change.
> </details>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
</details>

The method that `custom_search_space` points to must accepts both a DictConfig with already set options and a trial object which needs further configuration. In this example we limit `z` the difference between `x` and `z` to be no more than 0.5.
Note that this `custom_search_space` API should be considered experimental and is subject to change.
```

### Order of trial configuration
Configuring a trial object is done in the following sequence:

>   - `search_space` parameters from the config are set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - search space parameters are set from the `hydra.sweeper.params` key in the config
```

For problems with trade-offs between two different objectives, there may be no single solution that simultaneously minimizes both objectives. Instead, we obtained a set of solutions, namely [Pareto optimal solutions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pareto_efficiency), that show the best trade-offs possible between the objectives. In the following figure, the blue dots show the Pareto optimal solutions in the optimization results.

![Pareto-optimal solutions](/plugins/optuna_sweeper/multi_objective_result.png)

> ## Example 3:  Custom-Search-Space Optimization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## EXPERIMENTAL:  Custom-Search-Space Optimization
```

In the same directory, `example/custom-search-space-objective.py` implements a simple benchmark function, which needs to be minimized. The example shows the use of Optuna's [pythonic search spaces](https://optuna.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorial/10_key_features/002_configurations.html) in combination with Hydra. Part of the search space configuration is defined in config files, part of it is written in Python.

<details><summary>Configuration of the custom-search-space-objective optimization example</summary>

```yaml
defaults:
  - override hydra/sweeper: optuna
  - override hydra/sweeper/sampler: tpe

hydra:
  sweeper:
    sampler:
      seed: 123
    direction: minimize
    study_name: custom-search-space
    storage: null
    n_trials: 20
    n_jobs: 1

    search_space:
      x:
        type: float
        low: -5.5
        high: 5.5
        step: 0.5
      y:
        type: categorical
        choices: [-5, 0, 5]
    custom_search_space: example.custom-search-space-objective.configure

x: 1
y: 1
z: 100
max_z_difference_from_x: 0.5
```

> The `custom_search_space` configuration option refers to the `configure` function in `example/custom-search-space-objective.py`. This method accepts both a DictConfig with already set options and the trial object which needs further configuration. In this example we limit `z` the difference between `x` and `z` to be no more than 0.5.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `custom_search_space` configuration option refers to the `configure` function in `example/custom-search-space-objective.py`. This method accepts both a DictConfig with already set options and the trial object which needs further configuration. In this example we limit `z` the difference between `x` and `z` to be no more than 0.5.
Note that this `custom_search_space` API should be considered experimental and is subject to change.
```
